and you started out by pointing out this
is the week that I endorsed Joe Biden
and I'm glad to do that and it's partly
because of policies Joe Biden has said
that he's in favor of cancelling a chunk
of student loan debt that he wants to
raise Social Security and disability
payments things that I really care a lot
about that he wants to put more
restrictions and oversight on money that
goes to Wall Street but it's also about
the kind of person you are and who
you're fighting for what Elizabeth
Warren be a good choice for the Biden
ticket recently Mehdi Hassan made the
case for it an intercept piece where he
noted the strength of her planning her
popularity and her progressive stances
intercepts DC bureau chief and great
friend of the show Ryan Grimm is gonna
weigh in on that notion and how likely
or unlikely it may be great to see you
Ryan good to see you so start off wit
because you do this so well with the
history of the warran Biden relationship
to sort of set the context for this
conversation okay you know it's it's
disorienting to be at this place when
you when you consider their history you
know she is a bankruptcy professor you
know she and two of her her colleagues
embarked on it a decades-long project
which is actually still ongoing some of
her colleagues and then some new ones
are still doing it where they went to
court houses went through bankruptcy
records and try and tried to answer the
question what is it that makes people go
bankrupt in the United States of America
and one of the things that they they
concluded was that medical debt was a
lead driver of a bankrupted that was a
that was a shocking finding at the time
and has kind of fueled a lot of the
policy conversations around that issue
now as bankruptcies were increasing
throughout the early 1990s Wall Street
and particularly Wilmington Delaware
where the credit card industry was was
based because they had no laws around
usury or other exploitation of consumers
began demanding that bankruptcy rules be
be tightened to make it harder for
people to file for it Elizabeth Warren
kind of got out of the academic world
and entered the
world in the mid-1990s to be part of a
commission that was studying how this
should be done that put her up against
Joe Biden who was known as the senator
from MDNA MDNA was the the length of the
biggest card issuer at the time it's now
owned by Bank of America from that from
then over the next decade
you know she engaged in a knife fight
with with Joe Biden testifying before
his committee you know working the
Democratic and Republican senators try
to get them to oppose bankruptcy reform
she persuaded at the end of the Clinton
administration Hillary Clinton to go to
Bill Clinton and urged him to veto the
bankruptcy reform bill that Biden had
passed Clinton did it and shocked
everybody because you know the end of
the Clinton administration was a time of
bank deregulation and other other
giveaways to Wall Street they were
stunned that he did this and he did this
at the behest of Hillary Clinton who
then when she became a senator supported
bankruptcy reform she was representing a
wall street by then and Elizabeth Warren
gotten huge fights with Hillary Clinton
over that and continued fighting Joe
Biden she she has never been more
vicious toward a Democratic senator then
she has been towards Joe Biden during
that time he got an award from a
national women's group and she wrote a
paper not not just a comment but
actually wrote an academic paper that
said you know that women should not you
know be celebrating Joe Biden in the
evening and sold out by him in the
morning
acute yeah and and really kind of
refashioned the the bankruptcy
conversation as a women's issue because
so many women were the ones that were
filing for bankruptcy and then putting
Biden on on the other side of that so
you know here here we are now 15 years
later Biden won that bankruptcy fight
and she you know she's in doing not only
endorsing him for president but is you
know very seriously being considered as
the man's running mate that's I mean
that is such a fascinating history that
you lay out there Ryan so talk to us
about that she says she would serve as
his vice president I think she praised
his progressive credentials House
serious or these discussions happening
and relative to the stakes that you see
for the progressive movement would this
be the best outcome what do you think
well from what I've heard inside the the
Biden campus that it's it's very serious
so then the question that you have to
ask as a progressive I guess is of the
possible options you know who is the
who's the best or who was who is the
least bad I I wrote a piece with Jeremy
Scahill before he said he was going to
narrow it to a particular gender that he
should actually pick Bernie Sanders a
and a recent poll showed that he would
be the most popular choice among
Democratic voters in that and that that
would go the furthest to kind of bring
bring the elements of the party together
in in November but he has said that he's
not going to choose a man and so you're
left with a a list that includes you
know Warren Kamala Harris Amy Klobuchar
potentially Cortes Moscow out of out of
Nevada
you know people put Stacey Abrams on
that list but my understanding is that
you know she's not being taken very
seriously by the Biden campaign and so
you know each of those women have
strengths that they could bring to the
ticket and they have and they have
weaknesses but if you go through each
one of them you know a dispassionate
analysis might find that of those
Elizabeth Warren has the the the fewest
weaknesses and the most number of
strengths that she brings to the
campaign and what Carla Harris doesn't
bring much people in show she had a poor
campaign she doesn't have a lot of
support among the black community Joe
Biden already you know has a ton of
support among black voters as she showed
during the campaign Amy Klobuchar mmm
you know Joe Biden's supposed to be the
guy that's able to win these Midwestern
middle-class voters inside so it's not
clear exactly what Klobuchar brings
Biden is a terrible manager of people
globe which are is an even worse manager
of people
this functional White House since P
Bannon so then you come down so warned
you know she's there are a lot of Bernie
supporters who you know won't see that
as an olive branch to them but you know
there there are you know a huge portion
of kind of progressive voters who would
say okay that works and then you also
have the kind of indivisible moms who
basically helped power Democrats to the
white to to taking the house in 2018
these these these suburban women who are
extraordinarily active in in the amount
of work that they're willing to put in
for a campaign when they're fired up
those are the people you know who who
flipped the nomination to to Biden so
this would be saying okay you you know
of Warren's remaining supporters you
guys were most you know heavily
represented there so you know here
here's somebody that you can rally
behind
I mean maybe but aren't those the people
who are most motivated just by the idea
of defeating Donald Trump and you know
it's not like Elizabeth Warren performed
very well in this primary either for all
her you know media coverage like media
really loved her and elevated her and
all of that
she got third place in her home state
ultimately and her base seemed to be
this very sort of narrow mostly white
mostly more affluent higher educated
white people who again are exactly the
folks who are like most enthused just
about defeating Donald Trump really
doesn't matter who you pit put on the
ticket and the other thing I threw out
there and this was a neat silver
analysis a while back based on the blue
slant of the state of Massachusetts it's
not like she's gonna bring a swing state
into play here she actually is
underperformed in her own state given
how blue it is she's one of the least
popular senators in the country among
her own constituents so just like put
aside whether she's a progressive and
what she's actually whether she changed
the shape of the administration just
electoral II frankly I don't see what
she adds no that's that's a that's a
fair point and then you get back to the
question of what what does anybody add
and
that gets to somebody who I forgot to
mention and earlier who Gretchen Whitmer
you know who is the Minogue of earner of
Michigan who's been tangling with
President Trump over over the
coronavirus response but you know she
has plenty of problems on her own a
would it look weird for a governor to be
campaigning for for vice president while
people across her state are dying which
would kind of undercut her rationale
that she is handling the situation quite
well now saying she's she comes from the
kind of BlueCross BlueShield world her
campaign was largely funded by Blue
Cross you know she beat a progressive in
the primary to get where she isn't she's
only been in office since January of
2019 but if you from if you're just
looking at pure electoral calculus and
you're looking for you know somebody
from Wisconsin Michigan or Pennsylvania
then she's kind of the only one that
that that fit that fits that unless
unless you go all the way down to like a
Attorney General Josh Shapiro
Pennsylvania yours or somebody something
like that he he's already been
eliminated
you know he's he's not a woman which
then maybe brings you back to Amy
Klobuchar you know Minnesota is you know
Minnesota is only won by Democrats by a
sliver so maybe they maybe they say you
know what let's just let's just make
sure we lock down Minnesota we're not
getting anything else from any of these
vice presidential candidates so at least
let's let's pick this up yeah last
question for you Ryan is there a
recognition within the Biden campaign
that whomever they picked to be vice
president is kind of the leader of the
Democratic Party after Joe Biden are
they do they understand that from a
trajectory perspective because I see
this argument a lot from the progressive
left they're saying oh we don't need to
make maybe it's time to just make amends
and if they can take a Lizabeth warrant
at least that's something because it's
better than say like a stacey abrams or
a Kamala Harris how are the Biden
campaign actually thinking about this we
saw there's there's two ways that they
think about that one is that you you
understand that this certainly could be
a a Dick Cheney situation
where the the president is so weak that
that an effective vice president you
know actually then then runs the show
and so that cuts both ways
for somebody like Elizabeth Warren for
you know the people who are her enemies
and Biden's camp would say let well
that's don't bring somebody like her in
because she's actually going to run it
people that she gets along well with
like Ted Kaufman is an interesting case
you know he was a he's Biden's longtime
chief of staff and close friend who was
appointed to take Biden's seat in
2009-2010 everybody expect him to kind
of have the same voting record as Biden
had throughout his career instead he
became this kind of firebrand radical
who pushed to break up the big banks on
the nearly succeeded with with with an
amendment and and otherwise kind of went
to war with with Wall Street and teamed
up with Elizabeth Warren a lot so
somebody like that would say well okay
if if Biden certainly isn't going to run
for a second term and it will barely be
present for his first term then having
somebody like this in the vice
presidency actually is bet is beneficial
to to what worked what we're trying to
do so the answer is yes that that is
that is something people think about
that not only does this person become
the most likely to be the next
Democratic nominee for president or the
next president if Joe if Joe Biden dies
but they'll be in some way is kind of an
acting president which we've had you
know in various forms throughout our
history before right that's such an
interesting point Ryan thank you so much
great to have you thanks Ryan thanks
guys appreciate it man next on rising
New York Times media columnist Ben Smith
is gonna tell us how Trump's direct line
to the public during the corona virus
pandemic might impact the presidential
campaign when rising continues